---
title: Introduction
geometry: margin=1in
fontsize: 12pt
papersize: letterpaper
header-includes:
    - \input{options.tex}

abstract: |

...

* Date created: $DATE
* Author: $AUTHOR
* Project title: $PROJECT
* Data used: $DATA.

This README details how this research directory is structured, how
files should be run, what the different files do, and what to do if
the directory is outside of Luke's computer system.

The files created by `prodigen.sh` use the following programs:

* GNU Make (automating executing file scripts)
* \LaTeX\ (\TeX Live, Mik\TeX, etc.; reproducible manuscript) 
      * Package: pgfplotstable (reproducible tables)
* Pandoc (for the markdown (.md) conversion)
* SAS (stats)
* R (stats)
    * Package: knitr (reproducibility)
* Git (version control system)
* Shell script (e.g. bash; to use most of the above programs)

To open up some files, the programs Inkscape (.svg files), Docear (.mm
files) and VUE (the files in the `diagrams` and `dag` folder) will
also need to be installed.

# Directory structure and explanation

The project directory is generally structured with `data`,
`scripts`, `output`, `lit`, and `report` folders, as well as a version
control `.git` folder.  As a caveat, there may be folders other than
the below that were created for an ad hoc purpose.

## `data` folder:

The `data` folder contains the dataset (both the original and the
project subsetted dataset), all of which are write-locked to prevent
accidental changes to the data.  If the dataset is within its original
file structure (i.e. the original dataset is located on the operating
system), then just `cd` to the parent directory (main project folder)
and type `make refresh` in the terminal to update the dataset.
Otherwise, the dataset remains as it was since its last update.

## `lit` folder

The `lit` folder contains files relevant to the literature and for
understanding the causal pathways.  There are three folders within the
parent `lit` folder:

* `mindmap` --- Contains mindmaps that are used to help organize the
  articles that were read, the information and findings from the
  articles, and to help structure writing up the report.
* `diagrams` --- Contains conceptual diagrams to better understand the
  biology underlying the research question and to understand the
  findings of the literature.
	  * `dag` --- Contains directed acyclic graphs (DAG) to represent
         the underlying causal and confounding pathways.  DAGs are
         used to help guide which covariates to include when building
         predictive models that test the relationship between the
         exposure and the outcome.
* `bib-db` --- After the manuscript has been accepted and submitted to
  a journal, the .aux file generated by \LaTeX\ can be used to subset
  the master .bib file into only those references used (maybe not... I
  still need to think about this one).  This subsetted .bib file
  should be copied into this folder for future reference and to
  maintain the modular nature of each research project folder.

## `scripts` folder

The `scripts` folder contains the scripts which runs the analyses and
figure generations, outputting them into the output folder.  There are
various .sas and .R files that achieve different purposes, for
example, the `variables.sas` file subsets the original dataset and
creates relevant variables while the `analysis.sas` file will run the
analyses and output the results that can also be used in the
generation of the report.  This folder also contains another folder:

* `functions` --- Contains the files that have all the needed
  functions and macros for the script files in the scripts folder.
  These files are read-only.  If they need to be updated, type `make
  refresh` into the terminal in the parent directory (Note: this will
  not work if the original files are not present on the system).  See
  the GitHub repo sasToolkit for the macros used (found at
  [github.com/lwjohnst86/sasToolkit](https://github.com/lwjohnst86/sasToolkit)).

## `output` folder

The `output` folder (with the internal `figs` folder) will contain all
the output files generated from the SAS and R scripts which are
necessary for the analysis and the report.  The idea behind the output
folder is that you should be able to delete all the files, run the
scripts again, and generate all the necessary result files.  In fact,
in the parent directory of the project folder (i.e. ./), the command
`make clean` should be run in the terminal to delete all output files
to make sure that the script files are generating all the needed
output files.  This folder also contains the `figs` folder to store
all the figures generated by R.

## `report` folder

The `report` folder contains the files to create the final report for
the research project.  The hope is that all the results within the
report can be reproducible and replicable easily (using knitr and
pgfplotstable) so that if the analysis changes, all numbers change
automagically as well.  This process is known as "reproducible
research" and should be actively adhered to, to be as scientifically
responsible and rigorous as possible.  In order to generate the
document, type the command `make report` into the terminal in the
parent directory to generate the document in pdf format.  At this
time, I am not sure how effective the Markdown to Doc conversion will
be.  I will test it and update this README when I know how it works.

